PETALING JAYA: The worst is still not over for Top Glove Corp Bhd given the multiple headwinds moving forward, say analysts.

CGS-CIMB Research said higher raw materials costs and increase in operating expenses could affect the group’s performance, even though the average selling prices (ASPs) of gloves may have bottomed out in the third quarter of financial year 2022 (Q3’22).

Top Glove recently posted a core net profit of RM272mil in the H1’22, down by 95% year-on-year (y-o-y), which came in below expectations due to lower-than-expected ASPs and a surge in operational costs.

In its latest report, CGS-CIMB Research cut its FY22-FY24 earnings per share (EPS) estimates on Top Glove to account for the higher raw material prices and operating costs.

The research house reiterated a “reduce” call on the stock with a lower target price (TP) of RM1.30.

“We believe that the group’s current valuation of a 21.4% premium to its five-year mean has yet to account for further downside to its earnings, while the operating environment remains weak,” it added.

On Wednesday, Top Glove announced that it will postpone its plan to raise US$347mil (RM1.45bil) in a dual primary listing on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong (HKEX), in view of the elevated market uncertainty after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

CGS-CIMB Research was positive on the delay “given the EPS-dilutive nature of the listing, about 9.4%-13.2% decline to our previous FY22-FY24 forecasts, assuming 790.5 million new shares were issued (over-allotment option is exercised) during the HK listing.”Meanwhile, Hong Leong Investment Bank (HLIB) Research has maintained a “sell” call on the stock with a lower TP at RM1.33 from RM1.56 previously.

It remarked that Top Glove’s latest results came in below its and consensus estimates at 40% and 29%, respectively.

On the outlook, HLIB Research said the resumption of glove shipments to the US saw utilisation rate recover to 73% in February 2022 from 60% in September 2021.

With ASPs inching closer to pre-Covid levels currently, glove buyers have also gradually resumed glove restocking activities, it added.

“In our opinion, this should bolster the improvement in utilisation rate going forward,” the research house added.

As for ASPs, Top Glove management expects that it could potentially inch slightly higher in the coming quarter, mainly to compensate for the expected increase in raw material prices owing to higher crude oil prices and wintering season for rubber trees.

Given the current competitive operating environment, HLIB Research opined that the glove maker may not be able to fully pass on the cost increase to buyers.

TA Securities has also trimmed its FY22-FY24 earnings for Top Glove by an average of 32.4% after lowering sales volume assumptions by an average 4.0% and net margin to 6.2%.

Following the earnings revision, the research house reiterated its “sell” call on the stock and reduced its TP to RM1.32 from RM1.80 previously.

TA Securities said: “We believe the current oversupply situation will continue for another six to nine months.”

As such, Top Glove has again deferred its expansion plans.

The group has targeted a total annual capacity of 109 billion gloves for calendar year 2022 (CY22), 131 billion gloves (CY23) and 156 billion (CY24) respectively.

Its current capacity stood at 100 billion gloves per annum, said TA Securites.

On its environmental, social and governance efforts, Top Glove has increased its worker’s minimum basic salary to RM1,400 from RM1,200 per month effective March 1.

